---
layout: page
title: Project Research
permalink: /project-research/
---

The following publications highlight research findings related to PoLAR projects and approaches.

[**'Economic Value of Ecosystem Services, Minerals and Oil in a Melting Arctic: A Preliminary Assessment'**](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212041616301309)

Abstract: The Arctic region is composed of unique marine and terrestrial ecosystems that provide a range of services to local and global populations. However, Arctic sea-ice is melting at an unprecedented rate, threatening many of these ecosystems and the services they provide. This short communication provides a preliminary assessment of the quantity, distribution and economic value of key ecosystem services as well as geological resources such as oil and minerals provided by Arctic ecosystems to beneficiaries in the Arctic region and globally. Using biophysical and economic data from existing studies, preliminary estimates indicate that the Arctic currently provides about $281 billion per year (in 2016 US$) in terms of food, mineral extraction, oil production, tourism, hunting, existence values and climate regulation. However, given predictions of ice-free summers by 2037, many of the ecosystem services may be lost. We hope that this communication stimulates discussion among policy-makers regarding the value of ecosystem services and such geological resources as minerals and oil provided by the Arctic region, and the potential ecosystem losses resulting from Arctic melt, so as to motivate decisions vis a vis climate change mitigation before Arctic ice disappears completely.

-   O'Garra, T. (2017) ''Economic Value of Ecosystem Services, Minerals and Oil in a Melting Arctic: A Preliminary Assessment.' Ecosystem Services, 24:180-186. 

[**'Climate Change Games as Tools for Education and
Engagement'**](http://www.nature.com/nclimate/journal/v5/n5/full/nclimate2566.html)

Abstract: Scientists, educators and policymakers continue to face
challenges when it comes to finding effective strategies to engage the
public on climate change. We argue that games on the subject of climate
change are well-suited to address these challenges because they can
serve as effective tools for education and engagement. Recently, there
has been a dramatic increase in the development of such games, many
featuring innovative designs that blur traditional boundaries (for
example, those that involve social media, alternative reality games, or
those that involve direct action upon the real world). Here, we present
an overview of the types of climate change game currently available, the
benefits and trade-offs of their use, and reasons why they hold such
promise for education and engagement regarding climate change.

-   Wu, J.S. and Lee, J.J. (2015). "Climate change games as tools for
    education and engagement." *Nature Climate Change*, 5:413-418. 

[**'Exploring the Efficacy and Engagement of a Glacial Melting Simulation'**](https://www.nestanet.org/cms/sites/default/files/journal/LDEO_Fall2014sep.pdf)

Abstract: It can be difficult for students to relate abstract representations of Earth features to processes and concrete changes in their everyday world. This article describes the study of the use of an interactive simulation designed to help students understand how glacial melting affects sea level rise by using interactives that link glacial contour maps to visualizations of glacial melting and the resulting sea level rise. Students using this simulation reported high engagement scores and performed well on comprehension questions. Practical applications of the learning framework used to design the simulation and updates to the simulation based on this study are also discussed in this article. 

-   Virk, S.S., Turrin, M., and Compres, L. (2014). Exploring the Efficacy 
and Engagement of a Glacial Melting Simulation. The Earth Scientist. XXX (3), 38.

[**‘Greenify: A Real-World Action Game for Climate Change
Education’**](http://sag.sagepub.com/content/early/2013/01/09/1046878112470539)

Abstract: The literature on climate change education recommends social,
accessible action-oriented learning that is specifically designed to
resonate with a target audience’s values and worldview. This article
discusses *Greenify*, a real-world action game designed to teach adult
learners about climate change and motivate informed action. A pilot
study suggests that the game fostered the creation of peer-generated
user content, motivated informed action, created positive pressure, and
was perceived as a fun and engaging experience.

-   Lee, J. J., Ceyhan, P., Jordan-Cooley, W., & Sung, W. (2013).
     "Greenify: A real-world action game for climate change education."
     *Simulation and Gaming*.
