---
layout: page
title: FutureCoast
short-title: FutureCoast
landing-page-image: /files/FutureCoast_TPHupdated-image.jpg
landing-page-description: Explore publicly crowd sourced voicemails about possible climate changed futures in this collaborative storytelling experience.
permalink: /core_projects/futurecoast.html
---

**Description:**

The FutureCoast collaborative storytelling game is a public
online/voicemail experience that ran from early February through the end
of April 2014, and also includes a series of in-person facilitated
experiences which will continue to run over the PoLAR Partnership’s
five-year span.  The voicemails you hear at
[FutureCoast.org](http://futurecoast.org) are generated by participating
members of the public.

Especially in the coastal regions, citizens must deal with the reality
of the threat of climate change, and it's essential for them to
participate in the conversation about how their communities can address
these challenges. FutureCoast echoes common strategic planning exercises
commonly used by corporations and the military, which use “what if?”
scenarios to engage people in envisioning and thus preparing for
possible futures.  Scientists also increasingly use scenarios and
storylines as ways to explore the implications of environmental change
and societal choices.

FutureCoast’s open call was the first time to our knowledge that the
general public has been asked for their visions of what possibly
climate-changed futures may be like.  By framing this player-created
storyspace and making the future seem real today, we create an engine
for engaging people in “futurethinking”, helping them to visualize and
plan for future climate changes. Climate science offers them platforms
on which to build their stories. FutureCoast focuses on ways that wide
participation in climate change narratives can foster deeper engagement
and understanding.

**Announcement:**

The spring 2014 FutureCoast experience was highlighted by a number of
publications, including
[WIRED](http://www.wired.com/2014/02/futurecoast-climate-change/),
[National
Geographic](http://voices.nationalgeographic.com/2014/03/31/alternate-reality-game-eavesdrops-on-climate-changed-future/),
[Scientific
American](http://www.scientificamerican.com/article/new-climate-fiction-cli-fi-game-sends-players-clues-from-the-future/),
and [more](http://www.futurevoices.net/category/press/).  

Research on the FutureCoast project is currently underway.  We are
analyzing trends and patterns in engagement over time as well as the
content of participant-generated voicemails from the spring 2014
experience.   Preliminary findings will be shared at the fall 2014
meeting of the American Geophysical Union.

**Organization Name:**  
Writerguy LLC  

**Project Lead:**  
Ken Eklund  

**Key Personnel:**  
Sara Thacher  
Tara Borman  
Dee Cook  
Michelle Senderhauf  
Marie Lamb  
Ryan Meyer  
Willa Koerner  

**Project URL:**  
[http://futurecoast.org](http://futurecoast.org)

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/AffkjJ-Ft64?rel=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
