---
layout: news_item
title: "Games for Change Climate Challenge Awards $10,000 Prize"
date: "June 27, 2016"
author: "Jessica Brunacini"
description: "Games for Change Climate Challenge Awards $10,000 Prize"
image: "/assets/img/news-items/G4C-ClimateChallenge-news-image.png"
---

The PoLAR Partnership, together with Autodesk and Games for Change, sponsored the [Games for Change Climate Challenge](http://www.gamesforchange.org/climatechallenge/) in spring of 2016. The global design challenge invited game designers, educators, students, and scientists of all experience levels to develop a working prototype of a digital game that encourages players to understand and respond to climate change in their everyday lives, with an emphasis on scientifically-grounded climate solutions. Co-sponsorship of this challenge with the Autodesk software company was a significant step in furthering PoLAR's goals of reaching diverse audiences.  Autodesk tools are used by a wide variety of professionals in the media and entertainment industry, for whom climate change may not be a familiar topic.  In addition to engaging media and entertainment professionals, including game designers, on the issue of climate change, one of PoLAR's key project goals is to also encourage the use of games as effective tools for climate change education and communication among scientists, educators, and students. 

More than 50 game prototype submissions were received, spanning a wide range of climate topics and design approaches.  Additionally, the Climate Challenge engaged a geographically diverse audience, with the submission form being viewed over 800 times by individuals in more than 58 different countries. From the initial pool of submissions, 30 were selected as semi-finalists.  A technical panel, including representatives from PoLAR, Autodesk, and Games for Change, reviewed and scored the semi-finalist prototypes, using a scoring rubric that focused on the accuracy of climate science, innovation, the potential for social impact, and game play mechanics.  Four finalists were selected to present their concepts to a live jury on stage at the Games for Change Festival in NYC, which was held June 23-24. The four finalists included:

* [Block'hood](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i9p2x5ypwH0), by the Plethora Project, is a neighborhood simulator with emphasis on ecology and entropy. By simulating the carbon and energy contributions of each part of a city, the game can raise awareness and allow players to find solutions for climate change. 
* [Eco](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5ncWjzOXohw&feature=youtu.be), by Strange Loop Games, challenges players to collaboratively build a civilization in a virtual world where everything one does affects the ecosystem. Eco is focused on creating the real social systems, policies, and scientific understanding needed to effectively address climate change.
* [Carbon Runner](https://vimeo.com/165415139), by Pew Pew Studios, is a game about making environmentally conscious decisions. Users control the Green Ninja as he has to choose to collect or destroy items, which are good or bad for the environment.
* [Urban Climate Architect](https://www.clisap.de/stadtklimaarchitekt/), by the CEN Center for Earth System Research and Sustainability at the Universität Hamburg, is a drag-and-drop city building game that puts players in the role of architect and aims to help users understand how we can get our cities ready to deal with climate change and its consequences. It helps players understand factors of urban climate, which elements of the urban environment are important for the climate, and how to reduce the effects of global climate change in cities.

The finalists presented their game concepts to a panel of experts, including PoLAR PI Stephanie Pfirman, NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies Director Gavin Schmidt, and CEO of Fay Games Ira Fay, during the live pitch event.  The judges unanimously chose Eco, by Strange Loop Games, as the Climate Challenge winner. The developer of Eco, John Krajewski, was awarded a $10,000 prize to support further development of the game.

