---
layout: news_item
title: "PoLAR Co-Hosts Event on Arctic STEM Education and Citizen Empowerment"
date: "September 30, 2016"
author: "Jessica Brunacini"
description: "PoLAR Co-Hosts Event on Arctic STEM Education and Citizen Empowerment"
image: "/assets/img/news-items/ArcticSTEM-EdEvent-news-image.png"
---
The PoLAR Partnership, in collaboration with the Arctic Research Consortium of the United States, Arctic Portal, Arctic 21, Consortium for Ocean Leadership, EDU-ARCTIC, and Woods Hole Research Center, hosted an [event focused on Arctic STEM education and citizen empowerment](https://www.arcus.org/meetings/2016/arctic-science-ministerial) in conjunction with the first ever [White House Arctic Science Ministerial](https://obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/blog/2016/05/13/white-house-arctic-science-ministerial-september-28-2016). The event, which was held on September 27th in Washington, DC, engaged the international community of Arctic stakeholders in a constructive dialogue around one of the four main themes of the Arctic Science Ministerial: "Arctic Science as a Vehicle for STEM Education and Citizen Empowerment." It also provided a key opportunity for leaders participating in the Arctic Science Ministerial to engage with the wider Arctic stakeholder community and media on these topics before the closed meetings of the Arctic Science Ministerial began.  More than 100 people attended the event, ranging from Arctic scientists to policy makers to formal and informal educators.

The event was organized into two sessions. The morning session featured two panel discussions by Arctic educators, researchers, and community leaders.  The first panel focused on the use of Arctic research as a vehicle for education in science, technology, engineering and mathematics, and the second on empowering Arctic communities through research an education. Following the panel discussions, afternoon visitors were invited to spend time investigating the event's informational displays and learning about hands-on Arctic STEM activities and resources. Attendees had the chance to explore tools ranging from mobile apps to scenario explorations to card and board games that help formal and informal educators, school administrators, lifelong learners, and families bring the Arctic into their homes and classrooms.  Attendees appreciated the opportunity to learn about the educational tools, indicating that they were "very likely" to recommend resources like PoLAR's EcoChains card game, SMARTIC role play activity, Polar Explorer: Sea Level app, and Polar Puzzles series to others. 
